=== DOCUMENT TITLE: SRMIST Central Library & Digital Resources ===
=== SOURCE URL: https://www.srmist.edu.in/library/ ===

Explore our Library - SRMIST
Skip to content
University Central Library
e-Library
OPAC
Home
Library
Overview
SRM Institute of Science and Technology (formerly known as SRM University) has an excellent library for the benefit of students, faculties and researchers. As one of the best established libraries according to International Standards, the University Central Library has a large collection of Text and Reference books covering various branches of Engineering and Technology, Medical & Health Sciences, and Science & Humanities and its related fields. The library is nearly three decades old. It is completely automated with RFID (Radio Frequency Identification) technology, Centralized Air Conditioned (AC), well protected with CCTV Security systems and fire alarms.
Resources
Incredible collection of knowledge resources across print, online, digital archives, back-volumes, proceedings, thesis & dissertations, UG/PG & Faculty Projects, etc
Online Resources
E-Journals, E-Databases, E-books, E-Reports, E-papers and Presentations, etc.
Non-Printed Materials
Electronic Files of archives and other reference material including Bibliographic Databases, Videos, etc.
Resource Sharing
Exclusive membership to country's and world's best library networks like DELNET, MALIBNET, BCL, AIRC, SERC, IEI, etc + video resources, etc.
Working Hours
Central Library is open to all our students, scholars, faculty members from the morning up until late at night and is a delightfully convenient space to assist learning, exploration and reference mandates.
Monday to Friday
Working Hours
08.00 am to 12.00 mid-night
Transaction Hours (issue, return, renewal)
08.00 am to 11.30 pm
Saturday to Sunday
Working Hours
09.00 am to 07.00 pm
Transaction Hours (issue, return, renewal)
09.00 am to 06.30 pm
Summer Holidays
Working Hours
09.00 am to 06.00 pm
Transaction Hours (issue, return, renewal)
09.00 am to 5.30 pm
Architecture Library: Monday to Friday 8.30 AM to 4.30 PM
Law Library: Monday to Friday 8.30 AM to 4.30 PM
The Central Library is closed during all government and declared festival holidays.
Dr. P. Rajendran
University Librarian
Phone: +91 44 - 27456274
E-Mail: librarian@srmist.edu.in
SRM Library
SRMIST’s Central Library is a one of it’s kind installation that facilitates teaching, learning and research endeavors of our students, scholars and faculty members. It is one of the foremost such libraries in India’s higher educational system. Our Founder and Chancellor Dr. T. R. Paarivendhar’s signature efforts are evident in making sure that the sprawling 1.50 Lakh sq ft area library premises is not just a building structure that stores books. It serves more realistically as a space for learning and knowledge exchange with users coming from diverse study and aspirational backgrounds.
For a large multidisciplinary higher educational institution, SRMIST’s Central Library is a crown jewel housed in the iconic University Building (UB Block).
Meet Our Staff
Rules & Regulations
Library Floor Information
Uniquely large space for learning, collaboration, exchange. We strive to make our library premises a favorite locations in the campus. We see ourselves as enabers to help our users advance in their learning and knowledge aspirations.
Building
The library is located in the 15-Storey University Administrative Block, and is spread over Ground + 3 floors of 1.50 Lakh sq ft area. The library building is
Fully air-conditioned and automated with RFID (Radio Frequency Identification) technology
Well protected with fire alarms and CCTV security systems
Equipped with reading halls in all the floors, with reference collection
Floor Map
Level 1 : Engineering and Technology: Reading Hall 1&2, Circulation Counter, Librarian, library Office and Cafeteria.
Level 2 : Computer Science and Life Science books -Reading Hall, Own Book & Discussion Hall and Digital Library.
Level 3 : Science & Humanities Including Arts, Management, Languages Text. Competitive Exam Books, etc.,
Level 4 : Theses & Dissertations, Projects reports, Back Volumes, Reference Books, Reading Hall
Automation & Services
All operations and services of the library has been automated with RFID (Radio Frequency Identification) technology using Windows based
In-House software
developed by a team of programmers and the Library Staff of SRM Institute of Science and Technology. It operates on Windows 2000 server, Oracle with J2EE. The software has excellent operational modules such as transaction, query, administration, reporting modules etc.
An OPAC (Online Public Access Catalogue) has been created and about 17 terminals are provided to facilitate access. It is also made available via LAN in the campus.
OPAC
Infrastructure
Computer Infrastructure
HP-ML 150G2 Server, 2 x 145GB HDD
Storage Server (IBMX346 – Zeon 10 x 146 GB HDD)
WIPRO Net Power Server
Work Stations Desk Top PC’s (HP) & IBM
Scanner (Bar-code and Document Scanners)
Software
Operating System (Windows 2000 and Windows XP)
Utility Software (MS Office, Acrobat Reader)
eLIMS
Library Automation Software (in house developed)
User Services
The library provides the tremendous services to all staffs, Research scholars and students of SRMIST.  All resources print and electronic such as books, journals, and other materials are indexed properly to facilitate the users.  The library is a place with a wide array of services that would make you choose this library as your favourite places in the campus.
Inside the Library
Open Access Facilities for Textual Documents
Provision of Separate Reading Rooms for Students and Teachers/ Scholars
Reference Books, Thesis/ Dissertations, Census/ Govt. Publication
Journals of National and International repute
Outside the Library
Lending for Home Study
(only text books)
Borrowing Books/ Departmental
Libraries
Facilities / Services
Reprographics Facilities
Internet Facility
Laptop Lending Service
Database Search through DELNET & MALIBNET
Document Delivery Service (Digital & Printer)
Current Awareness Services
Resource Sharing/ Inter Library Loan
Reach US
Central Library
University Building,
SRM Institute of Science and Technology
Kattankulathur
+91 44 – 27456274
librarian@srmist.edu.in
E-library:
https://library.srmist.edu.in/
Digital Library:
https://library.srmist.edu.in/univlib/DigitalLibrary.jsp
Search OPAC:
https://opac.srmist.edu.in/opac/
Where could your journey at SRMIST take you?
Placements
Hostels
About Us
Aaruush ’26: SRMIST Celebrates 20 Years of Technological Innovation and Student Leadership
SRMIST Inducts New MBBS and BDS Students, Emphasises Ethics, Excellence and Service
Enjoy your Student Life & Excel at SRM
29 ° C
Group Institutions
SRM University - AP (Andhra Pradesh)
SRM University - Haryana
SRM University - Sikkim
Visitors
Campus Tour
How to Reach
Admissions & Aid
Scholarships
Admission India
Admission International
Colleges @ SRMIST KTR
Engineering & Technology
Medical & Health Sciences
Management
Science & Humanities
Hotel Management
Law
Agricultural Sciences
Distance Education
Online Education
A to Z - Quicklinks
Departments
Programs
Faculty Search
MoU
Committees & Cells
Anti-Ragging Committee
IQAC
NIRF
Policies
Institutional Development Plan
Value Education Cell
Insights
Innovation & Incubation Center
Student Clubs
Prospectus
Brochure
Spectrum
Public Disclosure
Public Self-Disclosure - UGC
Cyber Hygiene Handbook
AICTE
RTI
Mandatory Disclosures
UGC guidelines
DCS NBA
NAAC
IIQA
SSR - 4th Cycle
List of Programs in IIQA
Regulatory Approvals 2021-22
Regulatory Approvals 2022-23
Regulatory Approvals 2023-24
Regulatory Approvals 2024-25
Regulatory Approvals 2025-26
BAR Council of India Regulatory Approvals
Media & Resources
News
Press & Media
Events
Grievances
Colleges
Engineering & Technology
Medical & Health Sciences
Management
Science & Humanities
Hotel Management
Law
Agricultural Sciences
Distance Education
Online Education
A to Z - Quicklinks
Departments
Programs
Find a Person
Access for
Students
Faculty & Staffs
Alumni
Parents
Insights
Innovation & Incubation Center
Student Clubs
Researgence
Spectrum
IQAC
Admissions & Aid
Scholarships
Admission India
Admission International
Media & Resources
Press & Media
Events
Grievances
Policies
Mandatory Disclosures
Downloads
Visitors
Campus Tour
How to Reach
Campuses
Kattankulathur - Chennai
Ramapuram - Chennai
Vadapalani - Chennai
Tiruchirappalli
Delhi - NCR
SRM University - AP (Andhra Pradesh)
SRM University - Haryana
SRM University - Sikkim
+91 44 27417000
+91 44 27417777
+91 80 69087000
infodesk@srmist.edu.in
Virtual Tour
Videos
Community Radio
Email
Stay in Touch
Facebook-f
Twitter
Instagram
Linkedin
Youtube
Login
Announcements
Announcements
NEET MBBS Admissions 2026-2027
Super Specialty (DM/MCh) Admissions 2025
Law (UG) 2026 - Apply
Health Science (UG) 2026 - Apply
Health Science (PG) 2026 - Apply
BBA  2026 - Apply
MBA  2026 - Apply
Admission Enquiry
Search this website
Type then hit enter to search
Close Menu
Admissions 2026
SRMJEEE 2026
Search
Close
Menu
Menu
Menu
Skip to content