=== DOCUMENT TITLE: SRMIST Research, Grants & Patents ===
=== SOURCE URL: https://www.srmist.edu.in/research/ ===

Research | - SRMIST
Skip to content
Research
Apply Ph.D
Home
Research
Overview
SRM Institute of Science and Technology (SRMIST) have taken various research initiatives over the years to mobilize the available knowledge resources for research and also, to come up strongly with innovative solutions.
All the research centers of SRMIST function in a cooperative manner to identify and initiate applied as well as cross-disciplinary research projects, create and combine patentable Intellectual Property (IP) components, design and develop prototypes & proof of concepts, manage and market products & solutions (through know-how transferred incubated companies), win and work to deliver funded research projects.
Faculty and students are actively involved in research, as the university is
Committed to fostering and furthering research excellence
Specially focused on emerging areas of greate potential like Nanotechnology, Bioengineering, Energy, Environment, Materials and Embedded systems among others
Actively involved in a research projects that have nation building and public cause at their heart like for instance rural healthcare, among others.
Mission
Provide excellent research culture and infrastructure
Serve as a platform for strong interdisciplinary collaborations and knowledge sharing
Publish research findings in high quality journals of international repute
Create scientifically profound human resources for academic & industrial research
Promote industrial collaborations involving active and mutually beneficial R & D projects
100
Crores of External Funded Projects
100
No. External Funded Projects
10
Publications by Scopus faculty members
10
Publications from overall database
300
Patents
Dr. Bernaurdshaw Neppolian
Dean (Research)
Phone: +91-44-2741-7142
E-Mail: dean.research@srmist.edu.in
Directorate of Research
Research is an integral and important feature of learning endeavors at SRM Institute of Science and Technology (SRMIST). Towards this end, many research focused initiatives have been taken up over the years. From the early days of SRMIST, our Founder – Chancellor Dr. T. R. Paarivendhar painstakingly emphasized and got us to focus on developing a research mindset in our teaching – learning process. His Leadership focus helped us chart a noteworthy trajectory in our investments into research that made available knowledge resources for research and also, to come up strongly with innovative solutions.
Projects
Highlights
Ph.D Admissions
Academic Research
SRM Institute of Science and Technology  organizes Conferences, Seminars and Workshops periodically. These activities and forums help expose young minds to the latest innovations and scientific trends, thereby generating an interest in research.
Students are also encouraged to take up innovative, socially relevant research projects. Such projects are funded by SRM Institute of Science and Technology.
Academic Research
Policies
Policy on Promotion of Research
Policy on Chemical and Hazardous Waste disposal
Policy on Incentives
Policy on Plagiarism
Policy on IPR
Policy on Consultancy
Institutional Code of Ethics for Research
Funded Research
SRMIST facilitates research pursuits of our faculty members, scholars and students at scale and it is the impact. There is a dedicated focus on ensuring funding is in place so that research projects and studies progress satisfactorily. Incentives in the form of awards and prizes are given out to those demonstrating excellence in research. Each department of SRMIST has the flexibility, freedom and encouragement to pursue various grants and funding from Government, Industry and Multilateral organizations. It is due to this prevalent culture of research that SRMIST enjoys the credibility as a committed and competent institution. This is affirmed in the scale of research grants that annually exceed 100s of crores of Indian Rupees.
Sponsored Research Projects Sanctioned - 2007 onwards
SRMIST invests in creating an ambience that makes it convenient for our researchers to engage in high quality research. The large multidisciplinary campus as well as increasing focus these days on inter-disciplinary research has long back prompted us at SRMIST to focus on creating platforms where scholars and students from diverse study areas and specializations come together to work on finding common solution through research and innovation.
Sponsored Research Projects Sanctioned
Thrust area of research
Thrust areas
Collaborations
Research collaborations with our foreign colleagues are crucial to the success of our global activities involving faculties and students. Within SRMIST, the research platform is significantly strengthened by the collaborative spirit between and among the various highly diversified streams of research undertaken at various centers and departments. This is a great advantage to any research minded scholar or student because this serves as an unparalleled platform to learn, work together and excel.  Our recent past collaborations have been with the following indicative list of researchers who have a high degree of accomplishment and are / have been affiliated with institutions of repute and standing.
Collaborations
Central Research Laboratories and Facilities
IIISM
To promote the research in the field of traditional system of Indian Medicine, including Siddha, Ayurveda and Unani, Interdisciplinary Institute of Indian System of Medicine (IIISM)was established in 2008.
REACH
REACH (Center for Research in Environment, Sustainability Advocacy and Climate CHange) was initiated at SRM Institute of Science and Technology, Kattankulathur, Tamil Nadu with the desire to support and enhance a cohesive university-wide environment of research excellence where faculty are inspired
NRC
The Nanotechnology Research Center (NRC) with its state-of-the-art facilities is committed to the responsible development of nanotechnology as an important part of its environmental, health and safety research strategy.
CACR
The Center for Advanced Concrete Research (CACR) at SRM University was started in the year 2010, to carry out interdisciplinary research in the field of concrete, a most common material of construction in any built environment and a basic necessity for accelerated economic development.
SRM-DBT Platform
SRM Institute of Science and Technology in collaboration with Department of Biotechnology, Govt. of India has established this advanced research facility under the project “ SRM-DBT Partnership Platform for Contemporary Research Services and Skill Development in Advanced Life Science Technologies
Medical Research Centre
SRMIST’s aMRC established in 2008 promotes research in medical & allied sciences. In addition to helping PhDs Researchers, MRC among other things also mentors the faculty and the students in Scientific enquiry.
Center for Statistics
SRMIST’s Centre for Statistics is the hub of Statistical Training, Research and Consultancy and it It brings together students, research scholars, and faculty to bring fresh thinking and collaboration.
Earthquake Research Cell
Earthquake Research cell (ERC) established in 2012 to decipher causes for origin, occurrence and prediction of Earthquake by better understanding the geodynamical behavior of this natural disaster on the globe.
HPCC
Supercomputer center is a location with a supercomputer facility usually need for research work. The supercomputer is a computer with a high-level computational capacity compared to a general-purpose computer. Performance of a supercomputer is measured in floating-point operations per second (FLOPS) instead of million instructions per second (MIPS).
SCIF
SCIF portal consolidates the state-of-the-art research facilities available under the Directorate of Research in SRMIST and allows users to directly request & reserve time for use.
News & Events
Aaruush ’26: SRMIST Celebrates 20 Years of Technological Innovation and Student Leadership
SRMIST Inducts New MBBS and BDS Students, Emphasises Ethics, Excellence and Service
Sahitya 2026: SRM Lit Fest 4.0 Celebrates India’s Literary Heritage and Knowledge Systems
SRMIST College of Agricultural Sciences (SRMCAS) Accredited by ICAR-NAEAB
SRMIST Conducts Hands-on Workshop on Advanced 3D Bioprinting Technologies
SRMIST Co-Hosts PACCAS 2026 at NSYSU, Strengthening Global Collaboration in IC Design
View More News
Aug 22
SRMIST Delhi Alumni Chapter Meet 2026
Aug 20
National Conference on Frontiers in Drug Discovery
Sep 9
First Aid and Nutrition Screening Programme
View More Events
Reach Us
Directorate of Research
Dr. Bernaurdshaw Neppolian
Dean (Research)
Room No 910, 9th Floor, Sir C.V. Raman Block
SRMIST, Kattankulathur
Email: dean.research@srmist.edu.in
Phone: 91-44-2741-7142
Where could your journey at SRMIST take you?
Placements
Hostels
About Us
Aaruush ’26: SRMIST Celebrates 20 Years of Technological Innovation and Student Leadership
SRMIST Inducts New MBBS and BDS Students, Emphasises Ethics, Excellence and Service
Enjoy your Student Life & Excel at SRM
29 ° C
Group Institutions
SRM University - AP (Andhra Pradesh)
SRM University - Haryana
SRM University - Sikkim
Visitors
Campus Tour
How to Reach
Admissions & Aid
Scholarships
Admission India
Admission International
Colleges @ SRMIST KTR
Engineering & Technology
Medical & Health Sciences
Management
Science & Humanities
Hotel Management
Law
Agricultural Sciences
Distance Education
Online Education
A to Z - Quicklinks
Departments
Programs
Faculty Search
MoU
Committees & Cells
Anti-Ragging Committee
IQAC
NIRF
Policies
Institutional Development Plan
Value Education Cell
Insights
Innovation & Incubation Center
Student Clubs
Prospectus
Brochure
Spectrum
Public Disclosure
Public Self-Disclosure - UGC
Cyber Hygiene Handbook
AICTE
RTI
Mandatory Disclosures
UGC guidelines
DCS NBA
NAAC
IIQA
SSR - 4th Cycle
List of Programs in IIQA
Regulatory Approvals 2021-22
Regulatory Approvals 2022-23
Regulatory Approvals 2023-24
Regulatory Approvals 2024-25
Regulatory Approvals 2025-26
BAR Council of India Regulatory Approvals
Media & Resources
News
Press & Media
Events
Grievances
Colleges
Engineering & Technology
Medical & Health Sciences
Management
Science & Humanities
Hotel Management
Law
Agricultural Sciences
Distance Education
Online Education
A to Z - Quicklinks
Departments
Programs
Find a Person
Access for
Students
Faculty & Staffs
Alumni
Parents
Insights
Innovation & Incubation Center
Student Clubs
Researgence
Spectrum
IQAC
Admissions & Aid
Scholarships
Admission India
Admission International
Media & Resources
Press & Media
Events
Grievances
Policies
Mandatory Disclosures
Downloads
Visitors
Campus Tour
How to Reach
Campuses
Kattankulathur - Chennai
Ramapuram - Chennai
Vadapalani - Chennai
Tiruchirappalli
Delhi - NCR
SRM University - AP (Andhra Pradesh)
SRM University - Haryana
SRM University - Sikkim
+91 44 27417000
+91 44 27417777
+91 80 69087000
infodesk@srmist.edu.in
Virtual Tour
Videos
Community Radio
Email
Stay in Touch
Facebook-f
Twitter
Instagram
Linkedin
Youtube
Login
Announcements
Announcements
NEET MBBS Admissions 2026-2027
Super Specialty (DM/MCh) Admissions 2025
Law (UG) 2026 - Apply
Health Science (UG) 2026 - Apply
Health Science (PG) 2026 - Apply
BBA  2026 - Apply
MBA  2026 - Apply
Admission Enquiry
Search this website
Type then hit enter to search
Close Menu
Admissions 2026
SRMJEEE 2026
Search
Close
Menu
Menu
Menu
Skip to content